---
sidebar_position: 6
---

## Build the Static Site

After making necessary modifications and ensuring that your documentation site looks and functions as expected in the development environment, the next step is to build the static files. Building the static site involves compiling all the source code, assets, and configurations into static HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files that can be deployed to a web server or hosting platform.

**Running the Build Process**

To build the static files for your Docusaurus site, run the following command in your project directory:

```
npm run build
```
This command executes the build script defined in your package.json file, which typically triggers the Docusaurus build process.

**Generating Static Files**

Upon running the build command, Docusaurus will compile all the source files, including Markdown documents, React components, and static assets, into a production-ready format. The resulting static files will be generated in a directory named build or out within your project directory.

**Verification**

After the build process completes, you can verify that the static files have been successfully generated. Navigate to the build directory and inspect the contents to ensure that all the necessary files are present and correctly structured.

**Deployment-Ready Files**

The static files generated by the build process are deployment-ready and can be uploaded to a web server, content delivery network (CDN), or hosting platform for public access. These static files do not require server-side processing and can be served directly to users' web browsers.

**Continuous Integration**

In a continuous integration (CI) or continuous deployment (CD) workflow, you can automate the build process by integrating it into your CI/CD pipeline. This ensures that the static site is rebuilt and updated automatically whenever changes are pushed to the repository, maintaining consistency and reliability.